Hippocrates once said,
moderation is the mother of virtue.
Therefore, it is better to avoid this mistake,
not to collect more information than is necessary for making decisions.
Because collecting additional, sometimes unnecessary information,
the use of a small number of people,
may require excessive attraction of resources,
that is, it will be very expensive.
Another danger is that in this regard,
a very insignificant issue can be worked out, let's say,
one of the sides of the problem,
and to solve really relevant problems or complex problems,
there will be no resources or time.
Time, in principle, is also a resource.
And another interesting aspect is that
such a long, tedious study of the situation,
a collection of a huge amount of information,
in the end, can become unpleasant for a person
who is preparing a particular decision.
He just gets tired of it and tries, in the end,
to get away from all this,
giving the right to someone else to deal with the solution of this problem.
And the last mistake is the desire to solve the easiest problems.
Because the more difficult the task,
this is my point of view,
the more serious the responsibility comes after making a decision.
And many people are happy to deal with the easy, simple problems,
which they probably know how to solve.
But the solution of complex problems,
problematic situations, and so on,
is transferred to someone else.
Sometimes this departure from complex problems can play a positive role,
but sooner or later,
your subordinates will understand that you are leaving the solution of complex,
complex, complex problems, and this threatens you with loss of influence.
And as soon as your position, your influence,
will be shaken, then very quickly someone will find
who will free you from the need to make difficult decisions,
and will take them instead of you.
It is quite possible that decisions made by others
will go against your personal and professional interests.
The most detailed description of typical mistakes made by managers
is written in the book by Paul Natto.
Despite the fact that he mentions only three typical mistakes,
he gives a very good analysis,
which traps these three mistakes can be set in,
gives a detailed description of these traps,
and recommendations on how not to make mistakes and not to fall into traps.
So, three mistakes that Paul Natto calls.
1. Constant use of approach,
which leads to failure,
and not the approach of the appropriate and best practice.
2. The hasty decision to use valuable resources
before all the necessary facts are collected.
3. Spending time and money to demonstrate that work is not done in vain.
And further, revealing the topic,
Paul says that three mistakes create seven traps
that trap those who make decisions,
and eventually lead to the adoption of ineffective decisions.
Paul calls seven traps that can trap those who make decisions.
The first is following the wrong instructions that do not agree with the facts.
Who can give these instructions?
Either the person above, or the owner, and so on.
The second is ignoring potential barriers to the path of decision-making.
Also, the lack of clear goals that lead to uncertainty
and greatly reduce the work of the organization as a whole.
It can also be a lack of desire to look for more effective ideas and approaches,
in addition to those that are already used to,
and in which it is very convenient and comfortable to work.
The next trap is that the collection and analysis of information
takes place somewhat pre-emptively.
That is, either only the data that supports one opinion is collected,
or those that are convenient are analyzed from this collected information.
This is very common, unfortunately, in the world of research,
in the world of preparation for a managerial decision.
Sometimes it is done out of malicious intent,
and sometimes, so to speak, so-called conscientiously deluded people can fall into this trap.
The sixth trap is that in the process of preparation and decision-making,
there are many aspects related to ethical issues and problems.
Without thinking about it, managers can ignore this aspect,
and thus decide to provoke unnecessary conflicts in the teams or more serious problems.
And the seventh trap is that people ignore learning from their mistakes.
And, in general, while maintaining their status quo,
without recognizing the mistake,
they try to do it again and again,
the same way, stepping on the same rake.
You have written in great detail about traps in the textbook.
Now we will discuss only the recommendations that Paul Nat gives for the use of the best approaches
to make the most effective decisions.
He says that you need to learn to use,
to look for the best approaches at every stage of the process of making a managerial decision.
That is, this is primarily preparation, within the framework of our course,
this is preparation for making a decision.
To do this, you need to carry out an intensive search for new ideas,
including using the methods that we discussed,
which correspond to the desired goals and openly assess possible options.
It is imperative to analyze the unrealistic, lost opportunities
in order to make decisions more effective and more qualitative in the future.
And it is very important not to give chances to those forces
that can block your actions to make a decision at the stage of either its preparation or implementation.
The second recommendation of Paul Nat,
which absolutely agrees with all theorists and practitioners,
is that you need to be focused on the problem.
You do not need to implement the idea that came to mind first,
accompanying it with intensive and large-scale efforts to manipulate the facts.
That is, you do not need to create a visibility of the gigantic work being carried out,
but, in fact, to carry out a lot of useless, unnecessary work.
You need to use an approach that involves a thorough analysis of the collected information
and which will lead to the best results.
And it is very important to plan enough time for the development of an effective solution
that is aimed at solving the problem.
Since, having made a decision in a hurry, without allocating time and other resources,
you can then pay a much higher price for eliminating the problems.
The third recommendation of Paul Nat says that you need to spend resources wisely.
And the reason is as follows.
You need to spend more time and money on making a decision at the beginning,
that is, at the stage of its preparation, and not on eliminating problems in the future.
Provide resources for the search for better alternatives and coordination of different points of view.
Make investments, that is, a certain kind of investments in financial and human resources,
in the analysis of the problem, in the search for all viable alternatives,
and develop solutions that meet the needs of all interested parties.
In addition to the textbook, of course, in which it is still said in short,
I highly recommend you to read Paul Nat's book
How to Avoid Traps and Errors Leading to Disaster.
The book is written in English and is called Why Decisions Fail.
The next author of the generalization of typical errors, or rather authors,
is John Hammond, Ralph Kinney and Howard Raiff.
They studied 8 psychological errors this time,
in which managers or just people are most often caught when making decisions.
These errors they called
1. Egoism 2. Status quo 3. Attempt to justify the previous decision 4. Trap of the desired and real 5. Incorrect wording 6. Oversight 7. Memory permanence
The trap of the desired and real makes it too important to give the original information.
That is, we are kind of, they say, so, we are hooked on what we once heard or saw.
This can be, this feature of human thinking, human, the work of the human brain
can be used even to push you to the wrong decision,
if there are forces in it interested and which pursue their hidden goals.
The next trap is called the desire to maintain the status quo.
That is, we all want everything to stay as it is.
And this makes us stick to the current position of things, even if there is a better alternative choice.
What are irreversible costs that push us to repeat past mistakes?
If we have already made a decision that was not very successful,
but at the same time certain resources were spent,
then a person purely psychologically strives to protect himself and his decision,
tries again and again to act in the same way and prove that the situation, let's say, did not go as planned,
but the decision was actually right, and so on.
Very often we take what is desirable for what is real and start,
that is, we first form our opinion about how it should be,
and then with the energy of decent and best application we begin to look for confirmation of this opinion.
In this case, we very often fall into the trap that Paul Nath was talking about.
We begin to selectively approach the selection of information,
in fact, rejecting all that information, those facts that contradict our opinion.
Very often the leaders of the upper level fall into such a trap.
The mistake of the wrong formulation of the problem is obviously a trap.
We have discussed it many times, and I think it is absolutely transparent for understanding.
If the problem is initially formulated incorrectly, then the decision will essentially go along the wrong track,
and it is unlikely that the decision will be effective.
The next trap is self-confidence.
In fact, we overestimate our own abilities to predict and give an accurate assessment.
A person considers himself an expert, a person considers himself a connoisseur in this field,
and too much relies on his judgments.
The other side and another trap is the desire to overestimate yourself.
On the contrary, a person becomes overly careful when predicting unlikely events.
This trap is very well connected with the ones we discussed with Matthew Snell and Paul Nath.
There is another trap that John Hammond talks about.
It is the constant of memory that makes us attach too much importance to the tragic events of the past.
As a simple example, John Hammond and the authors give such an example.
If you drive a car, you can say with 99% certainty that after a while you will drive much more carefully.
The last set of mistakes I would like to talk about is the generalization of my experience and theoretical knowledge
that I have gained during my own work.
These are mistakes related to the research.
One way or another, they will be in conflict with what we have just discussed.
Nevertheless, let's list them.
1. The purpose of the study is unclear or the true purpose is not brought to the knowledge of the performers.
The first mistake related to scientific research is at the very beginning.
The purpose of the study is unclear or the true purpose is not brought to the knowledge of the performers.
In this case, it is very difficult for the performers to choose the right methodology and to collect relevant information.
2. The problem is incorrectly formulated or incorrectly discussed.
3. The next mistake is that the wrong strategy and methodology of conducting research are chosen, which does not allow to get reliable information.
4. The next mistake is that the wrong strategy and methodology of conducting research are chosen, which does not allow to get reliable information.
5. The collection of information is carried out for so long that the decision is lost in its essence.
This can be a sign that a person does not want to make a decision, or that he just creates a visibility of conducting research, but in fact this does not happen.
If the information is collected reliably, it does not mean that further mistakes are excluded.
Without prejudice, the collected information can be analyzed, generalized and presented in the interests of individual persons or groups.
Moreover, there are two possible situations. When the person who is collecting the information in advance knows the preferences of the problem owner, or he assumes that this will be well received by those who are provided with this information.
In any case, this distorts the real picture of the situation and can lead to an ineffective decision and lead the person making the decision to delusion.
6. The next mistake is that the collection of information is carried out in a very hasty way, time and resources are saved, which leads to superficial analysis and unreliable conclusions.
The next mistake, which has already sounded in several other forms, is as follows.
In this way, so much information is collected about the existence of the problem from the essence of the mechanism of the situation, including those that are not related to the solved problem, that you have to make many private decisions, and the main question may remain unanswered.
7. The next mistake, which was also noted by Paul Natt, is that the research can be carried out without compliance with the norms of corporate and universal human ethics, which can lead to the violation of the rights of individual members of the collective and to the emergence of conflicts in this collective.
Moreover, even the problem of putting or not putting research participants in the public knowledge of what is being studied is related to compliance with the norms of corporate and other ethics.
We discussed this issue of ethics in great detail during the course of the method of research.
The next mistake is a very common mistake that can be associated with the fact that a person, when describing to the head of the research team or in a dissertation,
keeps something else in mind, and in fact, the conclusion of the work is based not only on what is available for the head of the report or head of the dissertation, but also on what a person had in his mind.
In this case, the work may be recognized as ineffective, and the head of the research team, having read such a report, will be forced to ask a large number of additional questions to understand why this conclusion was obtained.
Well, to conclude the discussion on mistakes, we will make several phrases of conclusions.
The first one is that mistakes are not to be feared. On the one hand, you can protect yourself from mistakes and traps, and the best protection is knowledge.
What we have discussed now, what you can read in addition, will allow you to learn to recognize these traps and avoid them, and, accordingly, will give you more confidence in making decisions.
But at the same time, you need to learn to learn from your mistakes. After all, every unsuccessful attempt gives new knowledge and new information.
If the decision was made based on well-chosen, analyzed information, that is, it was worked out, then nothing will prevent you from making an analysis of what was done in order to avoid it later.
In the practice of business, in many successful companies, it is even customary to study mistakes.
There, employees are not punished for their mistakes, because it allows you to find and determine the weak points in order to do your job better in the future.
The next recommendation says that you need to openly admit your mistakes. You know, there is such a thing as a wish. If you laugh at yourself, others will not laugh at you anymore. Not interesting.
Similarly, if you try to hide all the time that you made a mistake, sooner or later they will find out about it, they will talk behind your back, so it is better to openly admit your mistake and maybe even ask for advice on how to avoid it in the future.
If you are a manager, then Robert Townsend says that you do not need to expose your colleague to mistakes and gives such a phrase as an example.
If you slap your child every time he falls, he will never like to walk. Therefore, in order for your subordinates to conduct qualitative research, prepare effective solutions for you and make effective management decisions themselves,
they must be sure that they will not be fired for making a mistake.
In conclusion, it can be said that you will get a guaranteed correctness of the management decision if you do not save time and other resources for preparing a management decision.
If you will fix the main goals and tasks of the project, as well as the criteria in accordance with which the decision can be made or rejected.
It is also important to be responsible for the collection and preparation of information for making a decision and to carry out a planned work with information, focusing on the planned results.
It is also important to plan the work on the collection and analysis of information on the results and deadlines of the study, generalization, preparation of prototypes, and so on.
That is, the work should be carried out in a planned manner.
And the last thing we just discussed.
The correctness of the management decision is guaranteed.
Not 100%, of course, but nevertheless, if you learn to either avoid mistakes or traps or make correct conclusions from a failed experience.
Thank you all for your attention. I wish you good luck in business and personal happiness.
All the best!